Lots of stuff in our lives serves a specific purpose,
like libraries.
From the truly magnificent,
with grand staircases and lions flanking the entrance,
to the shabby-chic little houses put up by your neighbor,
we expect libraries to share
and hold knowledge and ideas, and books.
So it would be upsetting, even ridiculous,
if immediately after the grand opening
of one of these beautifully designed libraries,
 beautifully designed libraries,
it started sinking into the ground
because no one accounted for how the weight
of the books would affect the building.
Well, or so the legend goes.
There's no concrete evidence that any actual library
experienced this particular sinking feeling.
But the lesson remains: form really should follow function.
Architects are always thinking about purpose,
from how people will move through a space
to how the building will be effectively heated and cooled.
Similarly, writers can't just dive wildly
into a writing task without taking a minute
to think about what the writing is for
and what purpose they have for writing.
In the same way that a gothic museum would be all wrong
for a high-tech battery factory,
the kind of writing choices you make
will be shaped by your purpose.
Hi, I'm Dr. Emily Zaka,
and this is "Study Hall Rhetoric and Composition."
You can think about riding like a Swiss army knife;
it's essential in a variety of situations,
and just when you think
you're only going to need a screwdriver,
you realize there's a built-in flashlight
and a pair of scissors, too.
Basically, writing can be super useful,
but we still need to adjust the kind of writing we do
for the purpose we've got in mind.
Many of us start a writing project
only to realize halfway through
that we misunderstood directions
or we picked a kind of writing
that wasn't ever going to accomplish our goals
as well as we'd like.
So we can think of figuring out our goal
or purpose for writing as step one of how to start writing.
For instance, the purpose of our writing
might be writing as communication, which means,
well, writing in order to pass along information
or share something with others.
And that might sound straightforward,
but we have to think about what's really happening
when someone reads what we've written.
A lot of us think that writing
is like sending money with an app.
We type in $10, hit send,
and exactly $10 shows up in someone else's account.
Only with writing,
it's more like playing that old game, telephone.
The ideas start in one mind and end up in another one,
and when they arrive, they can look quite different,
like writing an email or Slack messages is often a place
where we use writing as communication.
And who hasn't spent time carefully crafting a message
to be really straightforward only to have someone ask
for more clarification and details?
The mind on the other end of our writing
is doing their own work with what they read.
Even if you say you just wanted
to communicate this update to someone,
they'll still bring their own interpretation
to the experience.
Imagine if you were working in the IT Department
and someone texts your help hotline.
All they write is, "This is broken."
No, hello, no context, no nothing.
Sure, from their point of view,
they're looking at the thing that's broken
and are asking for help.
But to you,
the communication doesn't give you a useful way
to think about the problem.
Rather, all the person is really communicating
is that they're so frustrated
they can't take the time to be clear,
and they're not thinking clearly enough
to realize they need to tell you what the problem is,
not just that there is a problem.
So when we're using writing as communication,
lots of other elements are needed
to truly achieve communication, and even then,
it's not that someone fully transmits their ideas
into another mind.
For the IT message,
the texter really needs to clarify what this is.
They also need to share why they think it's broken
and quite a few other key details.
Effective writing as communication
occurs when both sides have exchanged enough information
to move forward with the information each party now has,
but it won't ever be exactly the same message in each mind.
We have to be careful about assuming
that everyone shares the same background, influences,
and language as us,
because that's when we can get a little less precise
and less intentional with our communication.
So if writing to communicate something is our main purpose,
our job might be harder than we think.
But identifying it as our purpose lets us know we need
to work to take our audiences
and what they need to know into account,
rather than just writing whatever happens to occur to us.
But many times we don't just want to have people
absorb information from our writing.
Like when we're writing to persuade,
we're hoping our writing causes enough change
to produce an effect in the real world.
Of course, writing isn't mind control,
but our cultures decide that certain words, phrases,
and formats are deeply powerful.
Honestly, there are some pretty magical uses
of writing as action and persuasion in our society,
even if there are no magic wands involved.
Like an incarcerated person can sometime write a letter
to request that a political leader pardon them.
If written persuasively enough,
that letter can literally set you free.
Or, think about how job applications
and recommendation letters impact the real world,
shifting work opportunities and connections between people.
Knowing how to write to inspire people to act
is both immensely practical and pretty powerful.
And when we identify writing to persuade as our purpose,
we can focus on what makes the biggest impact
and revise away anything that isn't convincing the audience
of our argument.
So words are clearly pretty powerful,
and that includes the words
that we only write for ourselves.
In fact, writing as reflection is another role
that writing can play in our lives,
where we try to work through different things.
Reflection is one way that we can see thoughts
and experiences again and draw more meaning
or use out of them.
There's a reason why many of the world's religions
involve reading and writing about sacred texts over
and over, since there's always something new
to think about and learn from from them.
Now, this writing won't always go out into the world
for someone else to read or verify.
The most common example of reflection is a journal,
but in modern life, many people treat social media
as a form of reflective writing, too.
Some people post online
in order to process difficult things they're going through
and try to find meaning and purpose
when something hard is happening to them.
Some might also want to post good things that are happening
as a way to recall positive memories in the future.
When we write something down,
we look at it again as we write, drawing insight,
but we also create an artifact to find,
like a journal that we find
at the bottom of a box of childhood things.
When we find it, we reflect again
and are embarrassed by what we said.
So if we identify our purpose as writing to reflect,
we're empowered to make our writing
more personally impactful with less of a focus
on an outside reader's needs.
Even if something like a journal is part of an assignment,
we're our own primary audience,
so we can tune to what will help us think something through.
But reflective writing isn't the only kind of writing
where the author is the main audience.
Like when we see a brilliant novel
sitting on the bookstore shelf that isn't all
the writing that was done to create that final product.
In the author's dusty basement or computer hard drive,
we'd likely find piles of free writing
that help them work out the basic plot,
and maybe two or three full drafts
that each contributed pieces to the final.
There would also be proofs
from the novel's editor, full of comments and revisions.
These are all examples of process writing,
which is made of all the elements of a writing project
that help create it but aren't the final draft,
including invention or pre-writing tasks,
early drafts, revised drafts
and anything else you use to compose your work.
It's very difficult to achieve all the goals
of a complex writing task
without these process writing elements.
So keep in mind that part of the role
of process writing is simply to help us get
to the product we're trying to make.
The process documents we create feed into written documents
that later go on to persuade,
or communicate, or reflect.
And acknowledging when we're doing process writing
can help free up some of our inhibitions
or relieve some of the pressure we might be feeling
about putting perfect words on the page.
So whether we're writing to communicate,
writing to persuade,
writing as reflection, process writing,
or one of the many other specific types of writing,
identifying our purpose helps us get started writing
with our audience in mind,
and make choices about what we prioritize in our work.
But how?
Let's look at an example.
Say Paul works at a local nonprofit,
running tutoring services
for young children and also helping
with some of the administration.
In his first couple of years, he's surprised
by how often he has to adjust his writing to his purposes.
For instance, he spends a lot
of time editing emails he sends
to the parents of the children, the nonprofit serves.
He wants to write to communicate
in a way that really acknowledges his audience
so he has to think about where they're probably
reading those emails and what matters to them.
He realizes that the most important information
needs to be clear to busy people
so that they don't have to stop diapering the baby
or cooking dinner for very long to get the key information.
Realizing that part of writing to communicate here
will mean writing for very fast reading.
He deliberately bolds key deadlines and lists
making the emails scannable and clear
but he pivots his purpose when he submits grant applications
where his purpose is more
about writing to persuade, namely
to encourage the readers to give his program thousands
of dollars.
He adds a lot more details in long paragraphs,
since he thinks his readers will have a more critical eye
and will read very thoroughly
while comparing his applications to others.
Looking at the instructions for each grant
they encourage him to make his program stand out,
with this purpose in mind,
Paul tries to give a really clear rationale
for his project and make his writing inspiring
to convey the emotional impact
of getting tutoring for these children.
Ultimately, Paul finds success in this role because
he's not writing everything using the exact same playbook.
He attunes his work to the purpose he wants to achieve.
It helps him write more efficiently too,
giving him more time to hang out with those great kids.
When we know that writing can have a ton of different roles
some personal and some outward facing,
it's easier to figure out what skills we need
to build to achieve our goals.
Whether the kind of writing we're doing has a lot
of intricate expectations or is very personal
and for our eyes only, answering what's this writing for?
With confidence and proceeding based on your answer
frees you from getting stuck wondering how to get started.
Writing doesn't have to be an anxiety producing activity
if we know where to start and starting with our purpose
in mind can help us write better final products too.
Just like we make sure libraries can actually hold books
we'll bring the right tools and materials
to our writing so that we have the best chance of success.
What's great is that by continuing to watch videos
in our series
you can learn tons of new tools that can make your writing
into a beautiful and functional building where
you're meaning and goals can live
or something like that anyway.
Thanks for watching "Study Hall Rhetoric and Composition,"
which is part of the "Study Hall Project"
a partnership between ASU and Crash Course.
If you liked this video
and want to keep learning with us, be sure to subscribe.
You can learn more about Study Hall and the videos produced
by Crash Course and ASU in the links in the description.
See you next time.